docs/abstract.rst, before:


Abstract
========

Cancer:
Cancer is a heterogenous disease, in simple terms no two cancers types or even subtypes are same. The genome is a complex interrelated dynamic system and genes do not act in isolation but in concert with other genes within or between pathways. 

Neuroblastomas:
Neuroblastoma (NBL)

The integration of genomics with functional analysis is important for the investigation of complexity of cell as a whole. For e.g. DNA copy number may impact the mRNA expression and thus the phenotype of a cancer cell which determines the outcome. By studying the relationships and interactions between various components involved in NBL, including DNA copy number, methylation patterns, mRNA expression along with clinical parameters like age, stage and survival, it is hoped that eventually we will have a more complete understanding of NBL which will lead to improved survival of patients. 

Application:
We present an application in R shiny that will help users – both in the wet lab and dry lab – to investigate the mechanisms by which genes may interact with each other. This tool will be one of the first ones dedicated for analysis and visualization of Neuroblastoma cell lines and patient samples. Some applications that we have integrated are: gene-gene correlations, copy number-mRNA correlations, Kaplan meier plots, comparison of tumor with normal data etc.

Commit message:

updates first draft of abstract

docs/abstract.rst, after:


Abstract
========

Neuroblastoma is a rare type of childhood cancer arising from the neuroblasts and affecting the sympathetic nervous system. It accounts for 50% of all cancers in infants, making it the most common extra-cranial solid tumor in infants. Since neuroblastoma is a genetic disease, mutations play a major role in determining the cancer phenotype. The genome is a complex interrelated dynamic system and integration of genomics with functional analysis is important to investigate cancer biology. For e.g. DNA copy number may impact mRNA expression and therefore the phenotype of cancer cells which ultimately determines the outcome. By studying the inter-relationships between components like DNA copy number, methylation patterns, mRNA expression and clinical parameters like age, stage and survival, we hope to have a better understanding of the disease and thus improved patient survival. To determine the spectrum of oncogenic drivers, cancer genomic projects are generating an exponential amount of rich and diverse data using high-throughput techniques. We present an Rshiny based application, Neuroblastoma Web Portal, as a common entry point to a wide range of in-house and external resources that will help scientists to investigate and visualize genetic interactions and genotype-phenotype relationships in the context of such multidimensional data. Rshiny is a web powered framework that incorporates cutting edge statistical methods and data mining algorithms and allows for agile development of complex interactive visualizations. The portal harbors several Neuroblastoma cell lines and patient samples that have been harmonized using standard pipelines and transformations. Some, among many, applications are - visualizations for gene expression across cohorts, gene-gene correlations, copy number-mRNA expression correlations, Kaplan-Meier plots and tools to compare cell lines and identify tumor vs. normal differential expression utilizing public datasets like GTEx and TARGET. In future, we plan to incorporate improvements like secured logins, usage statistics and file systems like Amazon S3.
