
Abstract
========

Neuroblastoma is a rare type of childhood cancer arising from the neuroblasts and affecting the sympathetic nervous system. It accounts for 50% of all cancers in infants, making it the most common extra-cranial solid tumor in infants. Since neuroblastoma is a genetic disease, mutations play a major role in determining the cancer phenotype. The genome is a complex interrelated dynamic system and integration of genomics with functional analysis is important to investigate cancer biology. For e.g. DNA copy number may impact mRNA expression and therefore the phenotype of cancer cells which ultimately determines the outcome. By studying the inter-relationships between components like DNA copy number, methylation patterns, mRNA expression and clinical parameters like age, stage and survival, we hope to have a better understanding of the disease and thus improved patient survival. To determine the spectrum of oncogenic drivers, cancer genomic projects are generating an exponential amount of rich and diverse data using high-throughput techniques. We present an Rshiny based application, Neuroblastoma Web Portal, as a common entry point to a wide range of in-house and external resources that will help scientists to investigate and visualize genetic interactions and genotype-phenotype relationships in the context of such multidimensional data. Rshiny is a web powered framework that incorporates cutting edge statistical methods and data mining algorithms and allows for agile development of complex interactive visualizations. The portal harbors several Neuroblastoma cell lines and patient samples that have been harmonized using standard pipelines and transformations. Some, among many, applications are - visualizations for gene expression across cohorts, gene-gene correlations, copy number-mRNA expression correlations, Kaplan-Meier plots and tools to compare cell lines and identify tumor vs. normal differential expression utilizing public datasets like GTEx and TARGET. In future, we plan to incorporate improvements like secured logins, usage statistics and file systems like Amazon S3.
